
Master thesis (2025) - 
Contributors: C. Forgaci, D. Cannatella, Giorgio Agugiaro
typology
delineation
urban river space

Synchronizing habitat
Risk adaptation by co- evolution of environment &amp; society
Master thesis (2020) - N. Garcia Vogt
Contributors: L.M. Calabrese, D. Cannatella
Sea level rise
Natural processes
Ecosystem- based Adaptation
Ecotone
Hybrid habitat
Sea temperature rise
Water pollution by port activity
Wadden Sea region
The extreme character of human activities and hard infrastructures in combination with the continuous variation of the climate has triggered an unprecedented fast rate of alterations in the environment. Hereafter the anthropogenically magnified climate change is increasing stress on ecosystems; especially interfaces such as coastal areas are in significant risk. Considering that the North Sea is one of the most urbanized seascapes, we can draw upon its susceptibility to three hazards: inundation, sea temperature rise, and growing harbors. Although an ambiguity will prevail concerning the magnitude and rate of transformations, certainly inundation will cover and drown habitats, as well as move large amounts of formations and sediments; that sea temperature rise will attract invasive species and decrease water quality due to habitat depletion; in addition to the demand on expanding ports which implies more pollution by ship traffic, industrial areas, and spills, hence the accumulation of externalities in the sea bottom. One of the most sensible as well as affected territories concerning these hazards is the Wadden Sea Re¬gion, which consists of a large intertidal zone surrounded by high productivity areas and rich marine ecosystems shared by three countries. Recalibrating this region could mean enhancing the exhausted North Sea ecology to embrace climatic risk, store externalities, and set an example for the manage¬ment of other conservation areas at risk. Our spatial measures have developed from the exploitation of ecology (1900s) to its conservation (1960s) , currently (2000s) we are looking towards shepherding nature by integrating them into our constructed systems. However this spatial management perspective overlooks the innate benefits resulting from the synergy by co-habitation of human life, non-human life and the environment. The proposed project recommends to look into a partnership with nature to join the intrinsic dynamics this planet offers, instead of trying to dominate them. This suggested co- habitation could be a chance to synchronize with the changing processes of our environment, which might lead us towards adapting progressively to them. The project claims to regenerate the multi- equilibria state of marine ecosystems and develop an evolutionary adaptation through an ecosystem suc¬cession approach(Davoudi et al., 2013; Hale et al., 2009). This entails the grad¬ual transformation of constantly obsolete infrastructures towards hybrid evolving systems consisting of Infrastructural Ecologies (Brown, 2019).The idea is to use a mixture of soft and hard infrastructures that reintegrate the bio dynamics of ecology, so that it can be colonized by socio- ecological elements. Hence the interplay of the anthropic designs and environmental processes would support the creation of habitats that allow a shared expansion space for dissimilar activities to meet (ecotone enhancement). To propose such infrastructures it was necessary to understand the dynamics of the different marine ecosystems in terms of time cycles, longevity and inter dependencies. The consideration of this temporal dimension of socio- ecological elements in the design, allows the proposed changes to eventually be coupled to the pace of environmental processes. Hereafter ecosystems could be able to embrace climatic risk, since they no longer present a hazard, but a trigger of transformation.


View more
Resilient Medway River Landscape

content_copy
Adaptive Design Strategies for a Sustainable Coastal Landscape
Master thesis (2021) - Yu-Wen Lin
Contributors: Steffen Nijhuis, D. Cannatella
Urbanism
Resilience
urban development
Landscape-based Approach
Adaptive Planning and Design
Estuary
coastal landscape
Medway River
river landscape
Isle of Sheppey
Coastal areas and riverine cities accommodate the great majority of the world’s population, but they are extremely vulnerable to flooding risks. In the cities next to the Medway River estuary, the capacity to adapt to flood risks had been weakened by urban development and intense industrial usage. This degrading led to the loss of flood buffers and the recreational value of the coastal landscape. Moreover, climate change threatens large areas of nationally important habitats in the estuary. Coastal habitats are likely to be submerged by the rising sea. The rise in sea level can also accelerate the natural erosion of coastal cliffs. To address these problems, a more resilient landscape approach is needed to increase the coastal resilience. Therefore, this design-related research regarded resilience as the theoretical backbone, embraced landscape-based design approaches, including layer approach, scenario study, and mapping as research strategies. The project developed and applied design strategies in three lower-scale sites. First, the site on the Isle of Sheppey focused on coastline protection. A nature-based offshore island structure is proposed to diminish the surf, create space for tidal habitats, and provide recreational use. Next, on the Rainham coastline, to respond to intertidal habitat loss, managed realignment and growing marshes are the key strategies to restore the dynamics of the ecosystem. Last, the study proposed a transformation scheme for the Medway city estate site to relocate flood defence, provide space for tidal rivers, and accommodate mixed-use development. Each proposal could grow with time, increase ecological benefits, and create multifunctional programs. In the end, the study framed a vision on regional development, aiming to increase the socio-ecological resilience of the Medway river landscape.


View more
Dhara - Directing Flows in Mumbai Through Landscape

content_copy
A resilient blue-green landscape framework towards hydrological, ecological and communal reinstation for the Mumbai Estuarine Urbanscape
Master thesis (2022) - A.M. Hussain
Contributors: Steffen Nijhuis, D. Cannatella
research by design
resilience
Landscape architecture
Mumbai
Ecological
From 1700 onwards the natural coastal landscape of Mumbai has gone through drastic changes and has become the highly urbanized metropolis we see today. The natural landscape was that of a forest to estuarine topographical gradient. This transformation of the land has had a major impact on the city’s resiliency, impacting water systems, green cover and communities. The natural systems have been built over with sea walls, causeways, railways and other such infrastructure elements that have become barriers, hampering the natural processes and flows. With urbanization, the local fishing communities that were initial inhibitors of Mumbai have been pushed to the fringes, now residing in the most vulnerable parts of the city. These problems, and the added pressure of climate change, has resulted in a very vulnerable system prone to flooding and consisting of compromised ecosystems and marginalized communities.

Considering the city as an interception within nature, it is important to look at the recovery of these elements via a nature based approach. Blue green infrastructure is a tool to deploy nature based solutions in complex urban environments. They work with landscape as infrastructure and infrastructure as landscape, creating an intertwined urban and natural system. Therefore the objective of this thesis is to explore the potentials of a blue green landscape framework that will provide conditions for hydro-morphological recovery, ecological restoration and communal requalification for the urbanized estuarine landscape of the Greater Mumbai Region. The thesis focuses on three design assignments, coastal protection, restoration of flows and communal safety. This in turn would impact the livability of the city and raise awareness of the importance of natural systems and processes in urban environments.

Design research and research by design provide the methods to direct this research where analysis and setting up of design principles are components of design research and the testing of design principles is part of research by design.

This research is conducted at three scales, examining the potentials of the blue green landscape framework at the regional scale, analyzing a watershed system boundary and a detailed design for the coastal region with elaborations related to mangroves, infrastructure and informal settlements. The research concludes with a reflection on the process and outcomes and their relevance for other geographical locations where similar threats are experienced.


View more
RICE | Reimagining the Integration of Cultivation and Ecosystems

content_copy
Climate adaptation strategies for the rice production landscape of Northern Italy: the context of the Ticino, Sesia and Po rivers
Master thesis (2024) - B.L. Bakker
Contributors: D. Cannatella, Luca Iuorio, W.L.E.C. Meijers
Climate change
Water management
Sustainable agriculture
Landscape Urbanism
Research by design
Ecological restoration
human-nature relationship
Seasonal dynamics
In 2022, Europe experienced severe drought, notably affecting Northern Italy’s Po region, renowned for its industrial and agricultural significance. Consequently, the region’s food production sector encountered severe challenges in water management, struggling to meet its water requirements. Rice production, leading in the demand for water resources, is especially vulnerable to the evolving rainfall dynamics. Through research by design, this Master’s thesis addresses improving water security for rice production while nurturing a symbiotic relationship between humans and nature. The research identifies conflicts arising from widely adopted dry-seeding techniques in rice farming and the abandonment of traditional water retention practices, exacerbated by climate change and leading to diminished water availability. The proposed design interventions seek to retain water in the landscape, replenishing aquifers, and prioritizing habitat restoration. This thesis suggests a paradigm shift in water management and agricultural perspectives, emphasizing the intrinsic link between water, human well-being, and ecological health. By integrating traditional flooded practices and ecological restoration into agricultural systems, it presents a holistic approach to water management. Additionally, the strategy stresses the importance of fostering awareness and active engagement with the natural environment to strengthen the human-nature connection. The insights gained from this study can inform future policies and practices, ensuring a sustainable and resilient future for the rice production landscapes of northern Italy and beyond.


View more
Edges in transition

content_copy
Spatial strategies for a regeneration of socio-ecological systems along the Vistula River
Master thesis (2021) - K. Murawska
Contributors: T. Bacchin, D. Cannatella
regeneration
socio-ecological systems
landscape urbanism
water pollution
edge design
remediation
The proximity of rivers stimulated the development of the economy and culture of civilizations throughout the ages. Consequently, the advancements in technology allowed people to influence the riverine systems. In riparian areas, such as the Vistula River Delta, the river was regulated and the land was reclaimed to accommodate agriculture, urbanization and industries. Besides the spatial changes, the anthropogenic alterations have also environmental consequences, namely increased risk of flooding and limited water and sediment retention capacity of the delta. Lowered ecological performance of the riverine edges lead to a higher amount of contaminants being discharged to the Vistula River and subsequently to the Baltic Sea. The pollution caused by human activities as well as severe changes in the climate profoundly affect the state of ecosystems and human health.

Designing for regeneration of socio-ecological systems along the Vistula River is based on understanding the relationships between the pollution flows, flooding and the performance of the riverine edges. The project suggests a systemic transition towards more regenerative riverine landscapes with a focus on the redefinition of the edge space by remodeling landscape topography and the use of specific vegetation. The landscape design provides ecosystem services, including improvement of water quality, flood management, biodiversity and recreation.
The proposal illustrates possible changes in the three exemplary riverine edges, namely an agricultural edge and an underutilized and post-industrial edge in the city of Gdansk. The choice of these types of edges was based on the fact that agriculture is the biggest factor that contributes to the eutrophication of the Baltic Sea (HELCOM, 2015), while the post-industrial edges in Gdansk face environmental and spatial challenges that might become potentialities for future changes.
The design and its possible expansion intend to enhance the ecological, social and economic performance of the Vistula River edges. Higher ecological performance is achieved through the implementation of remediation practices and creating space for flood accommodation. Whereas, social and economic performance is enhanced by new functions and an increase of accessibility and connectedness of the edges. The proposal might act as a model for transitions of the Vistula river tributaries as well as other riverine systems facing similar issues. That is thanks to the set of design principles established in the project. The ambition of the thesis is to contribute to the promotion of ecological awareness and advocacy in Poland.


View more
The line in the Landscape

content_copy
Exploring the social and spatial opportunities of implementing innovative high speed railroad technology in the formation of transport flowscapes in the Netherlands
Master thesis (2023) - G. Credendino
Contributors: D. Cannatella, Gerdy Verschuure-Stuip
Landscape architecture
Railroad Technology
Social Value
Innovative Infrastructure
In the past decade, many discussions on the need to reduce our carbon footprint have led the EU to open a public discourse on the applicability of high speed railroad travels within the continent. But spatial plans regarding the implementation of said infrastructure are lacking and the topic of emerging railroad technologies has not surfaced in our media yet. The opportunities behind creating a sustainable European network are endless, but where is the research? This thesis aims at opening the discourse on alternative railroad infrastructure technology in the fields of social and spatial acceptance based on the frameworks of flowscapes (operative infrastructure as landscape and landscape as infrastructure) and the three dimensions of perception, function, and symbolism in order to assess the spatial and social opportunities of designing with innovative railroad technologies. This visionary research sees the cultural landscape of the Netherlands as initiator of this development, in which the new infrastructure aims at connecting the landscape, focusing on the character and values of the province of Overijssel, based on an analysis of technology through art. As a result of the research, the technology proves its position as a guiding Line in the Landscape, providing readability in the three dimensions in terms of narrative, landmark and connection.


View more
An exploration of Landscape Identity and Flood Safety, a delta dilemma?
  
  content_copy
On the reconciliation of the anthropogenic and natural flux in the peat pasture delta landscape through Building with Nature
Master thesis (2021) - J. Heijnen
Contributors: Daniele Cannatella, A.D. Brand, F. L. Hooimeijer
Building with Nature
Flood Safety
Landscape Identity
A sectoral flood safety approach has been the critical condition for Delta Urbanization in the Netherlands until now. But does this have to be the case for future urbanization as well? In the Dutch approach to flood safety, a dilemma appears to exist between (sectoral) flood safety on the one hand and biodiversity and flood resilience on the other. Where pursuit of flood safety, especially in a context of extreme climate scenario’s, might continue at the cost of biodiversity and resilience.

The thesis is on the reconciliation of the anthropogenic and natural systems of the Dutch Delta. It proposes a re-positioning of the relationship between peopel and nature. The concept and understanding of landscape identity is an expression of this relationship. In the case of the Dutch delta, landscape and flood safety are inevitably intertwined, and a certain relationship of human mastery over nature becomes apparent of this intertwining. The Dutch landscape is historically shaped through hydrology, geology, air and climate, however, contemporary landscapes represent severe anthropogenic intervening, enclosing and directing the dynamics of hydrology, geology, air and climate.
This thesis aims to understand the relationship between people and nature, through landscape Identity, the mutual relationship between people and landscape, shaped by and shaping landscape characteristics and individual and collective identity. Subsequently, proposing and testing a method for altering this relationship, based on the following hypothesis: Shifting the technocratic understanding of flood safety to align [again] with the trajectories of hydrology, geology, air and climate, which are both fundamentally shaping the landscape, allows the transition towards a biodiverse and flood resilient delta. Rethinking the relationship between people and nature, through landscape, is therefore essential. The concept of Building with Nature is tested as an approach to align the understanding of flood safety with the dynamics of air, water and soil. Proposing this re-alignment as the new critical condition for delta urbanization in transition towards a biodiverse and resilient delta. Ultimately, proving this apparent dilemma between flood safety on the one hand and biodiversity and resilience on the other, to be void.


View more
Water resilient mosaic

content_copy
Envisioning a co-evolutionary transformation of territories-in-between in the BTH metropolitan region
Master thesis (2024) - Y. Jin
Contributors: D.A. Sepulveda Carmona, Daniele Cannatella, A. den Heijer
Water resilience
Dynamic Adaptive Policy Pathways (DAPP)
Environmental justice
Pattern languages
Scenario making
The Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei (BTH) Metropolitan Region faces significant challenges, including drought, severe precipitation, floods, subsidence, societal disparities, air pollution, and an aging population. Fragmented spatial and institutional frameworks hinder effective responses, perpetuating vulnerabilities. This study focuses on enhancing water resilience with an emphasis on environmental justice in vulnerable areas between major cities. The proposed low-density development approach aims to balance economic productivity with ecological sensitivity, creating a decentralized, self-reliant, and resilient region.
The strategy integrates ecosystem-based adaptation, integrated water resources management, and water-sensitive village reorganization. A shift from a profit-centric model to one prioritizing water risk reduction in vulnerable areas is crucial for achieving environmental justice. The research employs pattern languages and the dynamic adaptive pathway method to organize potential measures, integrating future objectives, intervention patterns, and scenarios to feasibly implement actions by 2060.
Ultimately, the research envisions self-resilient units contributing crucial ecosystem services to urban centers and receiving support through knowledge exchange and economic assistance. This transformation will turn these units from sacrificial entities into integral components of sustainable development in the BTH region. Validated by both quantitative and qualitative assessments, this shift is anticipated to strengthen the water resilience of individual units and enhance the overall resilience of the metropolitan area.


View more
From the water

content_copy
Towards an adaptive landscape framework for sustainable development of agricultural area on the west side of PRD
Master thesis (2023) - Y. Lu
Contributors: Steffen Nijhuis, D. Cannatella
sustainable development
Pearl River Delta
landscape framework
landscape-based urbanism
traditional agriculture
The Pearl River Delta (PRD) is currently one of the world's fastest-growing city clusters. However, it has been a low-lying area with scarce land resources throughout history due to its dense population and frequent water-related hazards. The traditional agricultural system in the region was a response to these contradictions, serving as a multifunctional system that sustained the land and shaped the local society and culture over centuries.

However, with China's reform and opening up in 1978, a significant amount of agricultural land was converted into urban construction and intensive agriculture, the disappearing traditional agricultural system has led to arising social and environmental issues such as increased flood risks, environmental degradation, landscape homogenization, and the loss of cultural heritage.

This thesis focuses on the development of the remaining agricultural areas on the west side of the PRD. It emphasizes the urgent need for diverse ecosystem services to support the growing population in the face of climate extremes. In this case, an economy-dominated or monofunctional planning approach alone is insufficient to ensure sustainability. Therefore, building upon the region's agriculture-based background, the study adopts an adaptive landscape framework as an adaptation of the traditional agricultural system. By integrating the theories of landscape-based urbanism, social-ecological resilience, and ecosystem service, the landscape framework aims to facilitate sustainable development of this area in terms of production, ecology, water resilience, and living environment.

The study considers agricultural development in the PRD as a long-term process and recognizes the agricultural system as a social-ecological system. Through the learning of the development process, the agricultural area on the west side of the PRD could be divided into two main typologies: dikedfield and sandfield, and further subdivided into four landscape typologies. Together, they compose the landscape structure of the region. By analyzing and evaluating the challenge and potential associated with each typology, an overarching regional vision is proposed. Principles derived of the traditional agricultural system will serve as design guidelines, while the design exploration in Gulao Town, as a typical area representing one of the landscape typologies, will be conducted to showcase part of the regional vision and tangible social and environmental value brought to the local area.


View more
Through lake and swamp: Urbanization process of Baiyangdian wetland

content_copy
An adaptive wetland production transformation
Master thesis (2023) - Y. Zhang
Contributors: C. Furlan, D. Cannatella
Regional Development
Productive Landscape
industrial transformation
Agricultural landscape
This project focuses on the sustainable development of Anxin County, situated in the Xiong'an New Area of China. The aim is to create a harmonious balance between economic growth and ecological preservation, considering the region's unique characteristics, such as the Baiyangdian wetland and the surrounding rural landscape. Taking the local wetland productive system as a starting point, the project explores the possibilities of the local agricultural landscape to be adapted to the rapid urbanization process as well as providing a climate-resilient solution for the hydrological crisis.

A strategic map has been formulated through a comprehensive analysis and evaluation of scenario building. This map emphasizes the integration of local industries, namely reed cultivation, fishery and other primary industries, and ecological preservation. By promoting the sustainability of the local industry, a more coordinated network will be built to provide enough job opportunities to residents and protect the ecological sensitivity of the wetland at the same time. The goal is to enhance the ecological and social resilience of the area and establish a sustainable development model that can be replicated in the North China Plain area.


View more
From Segregation to Integration

content_copy
Planning and Designing for the Enhancement of Socio-spatial and Ecological Integration in Haizhu District, China
Master thesis (2020) - X. Zhao
Contributors: Daniele Cannatella, Arie Romein, Sylvia Jansen
Integration
Public space
Socio-spatial segregation
Transformation
Socio-ecological network
Urban renewal
The discontinuities of urban development and city expansion reveal Haizhu a fragmented and diverse area that results in disparity and isolation in different communities and social groups, and decreasing green and blue spaces. The objective of this thesis is to create an integrated and comprehensive socio-ecological network in terms of corridor and node at multiple scales that can improve the socio-spatial integration and reconnect the fragmented green and blue spaces for Haizhu district. Corridor is creating a linear connection or movement between spaces with certain buffer area to surrounding context instead of just a linear feature as boundary, while node provides certain places where nature or people can integrate with each other.


View more
Confronting the Norwegian Paradox

content_copy
Decomposing socio-territorial conflicts through modern and indigenous worldviews on time and space in Finnmark, Norway
Master thesis (2020) - Boaz Peters
Contributors: LM Calabrese, Daniele Cannatella, Gerard van Bortel
Scenarios
Temporality
Territorialization
Indigeneity
Finnmark
Arctic Norway
Socio-territorial conflicts
Hammerfest
Oil industry
Sámi reindeer herders
The thesis describes the development of the oil and gas industry in Arctic Norway. This sudden increase in wealth is causing urban developments and strong inequalities across different scales. Furthermore, it is causing friction between indigenous Sámi and non-indigenous worldviews, sustained within the culturally fragile county of Finnmark. The role of the Norwegian state is notably dubious - both historically and presently – by instating policies aimed at development through a modern lens and wealth from oil and gas extraction – especially in the city of Hammerfest. The fixation of space through this concept is disinheriting indigenous people as well as the climate, landscape and socio-economic state of Finnmark. Reindeer herders have a different conceptualization of time and space, accumulated through centuries of observation and adaptions to the seasonal cycles, and is highly dependent on the flexibility for their herds. Conflicts arise due to increasing urbanization impeding Sámi movement, creating a socio-territorial paradox. Strong uncertainties arise: will the oil and gas industry continue as planned by the Norwegian state? How does this relate to the vulnerable path-dependent relationship with the fossil industry in the future? Will development on the mainland further impede the ability of traditional practices? Through an understanding of different temporalities within urban planning and indigenous herding knowledge, the argument of the thesis unfolds over an in-depth spatiotemporal and on-site analysis of the island of Kvaløya. I argue that the triangulation of spatial modeling, research by design, cinematographic strategies and the integration of indigenous knowledge can help in improving the agency of mapping. I argue that the we should look more critically at the role of the modus operandi of urbanists and decision-makers, in their capacity of influencing and shaping the conceptual framework on which decision making is based, especially in the highly uncertain and contested territories. The thesis then moves towards a possible way forward by integrating the (indigenous) knowledge into scenario construction through transtemporal and transscalar mapping and 3d modelling. I end by arguing that the incorporation of both practical and conceptual knowledge of the territory and the ability to share and communicate this knowledge between academics, practitioners and stakeholders is critical to confront this uncertainty. The flexible and adaptive knowledge of indigenous people could therefore help into planning and decision-making processes. This will help to foster trust and build consensus among indigenous and non-indigenous participants for future decision-making. Ultimately it is a tool for (co-)creating awareness, action and allowing space for Sámi agency.


View more
Adapting to Uncertainty: Re-thinking Critical Infrastructural Systems

content_copy
Master thesis (2019) - R.W. Leung
Contributors: T. Kuzniecow Bacchin, D. Cannatella
critical infrastructure
risk management
deep uncertainty
Adaptive design
contingency planning
There are several prevailing issues regarding major altered states of extreme weather events. For instance, storm surges, sea-level rise, and droughts have all resulted in many regions left with critical systems and interdependencies exposed. The impact and risk of modern disasters have caused substantial adverse socio-economic impacts by damaging and disrupting infrastructure services that modern societies have become heavily reliant upon. Long-lasting disruptions can result in complete losses of essential services such as water, energy supplies, transportation and community networks.

The frequency of these extremities should now be considered as the new norm. Critical infrastructures play a crucial role in supporting society, and if major systems were to fail by a sudden shock, a ripple effect would be felt. A single failure in the system can easily cascade across a network of critical infrastructure (CI) that would render otherwise unaffected sectors inoperable. Presently, there are a myriad of issues in the UK governmental system, as there is little action being done to ensure service continuity and security of supply. Nor is there an agency that has an overall responsibility for defense against system failure.

Within the UK government, a long-term capital program has been launched to provide greater certainty and efficient planning in response to water defense infrastructure. However, the current model has no clear long-term objective for the level of flood resilience that the government is seeking to achieve. Although it will be impossible to prevent all types of flooding, the current planning system is too piecemeal, reactive and disjointed. Thus, this translates to the main research question: how to develop dynamic and adaptable strategies for vulnerable critical systems to address deep uncertainty and flood risk for the Thames Estuary Region?

The thesis aims to address several key elements:
•To develop a methodology and framework to understand how to assess and develop resilient critical infrastructure and services.
•Translating a spatial contingency plan while improving safety and living standards.
•To develop a set of propositions based on research-by-design with insight on up-scaling or replicability of the project.

The design interventions have the intent to increase safety parameters that encourages a faster response and recovery time while improving livability. However, the pitfall of designing without considering an extreme option of how we plan or develop cities can result in more risks compounding in the future. Economic hubs like London will continue to grow dependent on critical infrastructure and this will continue to stress the existing system. Not only will this remain to put pressure on the floodplain, but it will also create higher forms of exposure and risk. The concluding propositions involves a series of safety parameters, states of isolation, a trans-scalar feedback loop and the creation of emergency backbone services. The mindset of the project is not only to achieve physical integrity in assets but to also maintain essential services and operating performance. It is crucial that critical infrastructure systems should continue to grow, learn and adapt as time persists.


View more
Toward Wildfire Alternatives

content_copy
Mitigating Wildfire Risk Through Landscape-Based Resilience
Master thesis (2023) - J. SONG
Contributors: N. Katsikis, D. Cannatella
Urban design
Landscape resilience
Wildfires
Natural disasters
Mediterranean
Landscape typology
GIS-based
Wildfires are widely viewed as key evolving inputs of Mediterranean ecosystem. But anthropogenic climate changes and other socioecological recessions have transformed normal wildfire into megafire, especially under the intensifying challenges posed by agricultural abandonment and the rapid growth of tourism. So that the paradigm shift is needed since the suppression capacity has been increasingly overcome from the fire department. This research is aiming to integrate diverse landscape dynamics and fire regimes, to interpret the interactions between them and identify a series of heterogeneous fire typologies in the Mediterranean region (EU part) in order to support the application of landscape-based approaches. By classifying the land system dynamics into meteorologic, physiographic, biological and anthropogenic indicators (in relation with wildfire ignition and propagation), geographic information system based approaches and statistic analysis are applied to create diagnostic mappings.

The output of this analysis reveals several fire-landscape typologies and their spatial distribution in the Mediterranean, which improves the understanding of land system with natural crisis and is a basis for assessment of future changes under the regional climate, land use and land cover change and changes in management intensity. It also provides a evaluation and decision support tool in some specific locations for fire management, biodiversity protection and conservation of landscape values.

Thus, the downscale works of analysis are still needed for bridging the disconnection between the gap between Mediterranean research and landscape design practice. The prospective use cases must additionally account for the geopolitical and socio-cultural context of the region in question, as a means of establishing an integrated framework for fire management.

To advance the design perspective for mitigating the risks posed by wildfires, several key steps must be taken. Firstly, a toolkit must be developed based on defined fire-landscape typologies. These typologies represent landscape-based approaches that are tailored to the unique characteristics of each type of landscape. The toolkit will provide a range of strategies and design solutions for mitigating the risks of wildfires across different landscapes.

To apply these strategies in real-world scenarios, two key locations have been selected in the Iberian peninsula, namely northern Coimbra District (Portugal) and Marina Alta (a coastal comarca of the autonomous community of Valencia, Spain). These locations are identified as an interface with agricultural abandonment, and a dense littoralised tourism place, respectively, and are all typical fire-prone areas. By integrating the local context of each location with the selected approaches from the toolkit, resilient and adaptive scenarios for wildfire risk can be created. The design actions taken in these representative areas can subsequently be expanded and reproduced across a broad Mediterranean region. This approach allows for a comprehensive and effective mitigation of wildfire risks across a large geographic area while considering the unique characteristics and challenges of each landscape. The combination of landscape-based approaches with cultural and political context facilitates the development and implementation of effective strategies to mitigate the risks of wildfires and protect communities and ecosystems.


View more
Hybrid Morphologies

content_copy
An Interdisciplinary Model for Waterfront Architecture - The Case of Zwijndrecht
Master thesis (2021) - S. Drašković
Contributors: A.S. Alkan, D. Cannatella, M. Parravicini
Water Management
Morphology
Hybrid
Uncertainty
Ecology
Perception
Water
Climate Adaptation
Flood Design
Today we are facing an unpredictable future due to our climate change, which is causing an acceleration in sea-level rise and consequently flooding. Coastlines, docks, ports, deltas are at greater risk of flooding and damage, they are vulnerable to the escaping water and wetness, which leaves behind sorrow and grief. This thesis focuses on developing an interdisciplinary approach to design in waterfront areas prone to flooding, case study Zwiijndrecht. The project proposes a programmatic and spatial re - programming of an industrial area outside of the dike, by introducing a public program. The site is redeveloped through a landscape, architectural and infrastructural strategy where the site filtrates, buffers and transforms itself through the fluctuating water levels. Furthermore, the different programs, an ecological center and sports center, invite different audiences to experience the waterfront area providing a new perception.


View more
Exploring New Productive Landscapes

content_copy
Landscape-based spatial and temporal planning and design of post-industrial areas along Foshan’s waterways
Master thesis (2020) - Marina Mohamed Rani
Contributors: Daniele Cannatella, A. Snijders
China
Landscape architecture
Temporality
Landscape Approach
Post-industrial
spatial planning and design
Productive Landscape
The Pearl River Delta (PRD) is a the watershed consisting Xi (west), Bei (north) and Dong (east) rivers located in the Guangdong Province in the South-West region of China. Much of the PRD area lies between 0-20m above sea level and the rivers from the mainland feed the delta with 340 billion cubic meters of rainwater yearly (Weng, 2007). Water and sedimentation from the rivers up north and on the west side are constantly moving through this low-lying region, making the soil fertile and suitable for agriculture. This fertile low laying area is also home to one of the
most densely urbanized regions in the world (Weng, 2007). Apart from agriculture, this region has also seen multiple cycle of different types of production subjugated upon their land. In past decades, with the rise of consumerism and globalization, parcels of rural land were transformed into factories manufacturing goods which brought about rapid rural industrialization and urbanization throughout the region. This industrialization of the PRD resulted to as much as 60% of new urban land cover being converted from previously non build-up areas such as agriculture land and forested areas in industrial cities like
Foshan within 1988 -2003 (Hao, 2008). The change in landcover placed pressure to the drainage and capability water retention in the area which resulted in deadly flooding. Apart from rapid land cover change and massive urbanisation, industrialisation also usually bring about forms of pollution. Water plays an integral role during the manufacturing process and also as its byproduct resulting to most of the waterways in the PRD to be heavily polluted and toxic for the environment and people living around it. The environment, unfortunately took most of the direct impact of the rapid industrialisation and urbanisation. As cities in China began to prosper in the last two decades, the manufacturing economy started to focus more onto technology and innovation. In 2019, the PRD was rebranded to The Greater Bay Area (GBA), where economic development plans were lay out for market integration and advance development among the cities
in the region. One of the impact of this new development plan is that most cities area have to shift to a higher skill labour and hightech advancement in their manufacturing industry. The shift from traditionally intensive production to advance and high-tech manufacturing will create changes in many different aspect ranging from the labour market to infrastructure. The streamlining of production due to the technological advancement implemented by businesses will result in the reduction of factory operation and labour size thus leaving cities
with decommissioned industrial areas. Nevertheless, the transitioning period
allows for the opportunity for transformation these scarred land sustainably, to one that remediate using landscape based solution and regenerates the area into a safe area redevelopment for the benefit of the ever changing community, environment and economy. Delta regions are characteristically dynamic, it changes in space and time, so must the solution. So how do we appropriate
decommissioned industrial areas located along waterways to mitigate the impacts
of urban flooding and water pollution while also redefining the relationship and interaction of the inhabitants working and living nearby with water using landscape based solution?


View more
Clean Corridors

content_copy
A Data-Driven Design for Multi-Scale Green Infrastructure Design
Master thesis (2024) - M. van der Waal
Contributors: Daniele Cannatella, F. Rizzetto
GIS
Data-driven Design
Green infrastructure
Phytoremediation
Global trends in urbanization, industrialization, and intensive agriculture are harming our (local) environment. These activities require significant mounts of resources, energy, and transportation, whilst creating increased waste streams. Poor management of these sites has led to severe soil, water, and air contamination. Currently, Europe has 2.8 million potentially soil-contaminated sites, with around 340,000 in direct need of remediation. Additionally, these activities cause land cover changes, shrinking and fragmenting the natural landscape. The decreased ecosystem connectivity is harmful to ecological processes and biodiversity. Phytoremediation and green infrastructure (GI) planning offer robust nature-based solutions to these problems. Integrating these solutions holds the potential to utilize the same vegetation for both solutions. However, integration of these solutions is challenging due to the scalar gap between the locality of phytotechnologies and the regional scale that is used for GI planning.
This thesis presents a systematic approach to integrating small-scale phytoremediation interventions within regional-scale GI planning. Using a multi-scalar, data-driven framework, this research uses computational simulations, calculations, and assessments to identify optimal design solutions, including traditional GIS mapping, graph-theoretic networks, and neural networks. This integrated approach aims to enhance environmental remediation and ecosystem connectivity and provides a comprehensive strategy for sustainable regional planning.


View more
Synergy through water, land and forestry systems

content_copy
Towards evolutionary socio-ecological resilience in Red River Delta, Vietnam
Master thesis (2021) - Z. Zhang
Contributors: D.A. Sepulveda Carmona, Daniele Cannatella
Vietnam
multi-scalar approach
Ecosystem-based adaptation
Socio-ecological Resilience
Adaptive Governance
Red River Delta
The formation of this triangular land and lasting cultivation upon it has transformed the Red River Delta into a highly anthropocentric rice-based delta. The delta area is affected by climate change variability as externalities, a fast and persistent urban expansion and environmental degradation presenting an increasing socio-ecological vulnerabilities, involving- biodiversity loss, water stress (mainly pollution and flooding), and social spatial fragmentation. These phenomena increase future uncertainty and local informality. The project calls for an acknowledge and awareness of the presented systems complexity of this typical monsoon Asian country under such risks.
The proposed project focuses mainly on the potential synergy between topos and habitat- flux, translations, and diversity. It is composed of a cycle of reviewing, reorganizing, and resonating, with recasting existing vernacular adaptation strategies. A combination of methods- sections, multi-scalar approach, evaluation frameworks, and dynamic pathways- is used to explore systemic thinking of water consumption, urban occupation, local culture and land cultivation in the area. The possibilities proposed by the project are constructed in order to facilitate an integrated resource co-management through adaptive governance, as to understand evolutionary systems of water, land, and forestry within. By exploring systemic interdependencies in and across systems and stakeholders, the exploratory cycle from local to regional scales by landscape transformation and socio-ecological evaluation reveals a revised relationship with the ground towards socio-ecological resilience.


View more